[Music]
I am Father Mark Mary with Franciscan
friers of renewal and this is the Rosary
in year podcast we're through prayer and
meditation the rosary brings us deeper
into relationship with Jesus and Mary
and becomes a source of Grace for the
whole world the Rosary in year is
brought to you by Ascension this is day
four to download the prayer plan for
Rosary in year visit ascensionpress.com
for/ Rosary in year or text Ry to
33777 you'll get an outline of how we're
going to P month and it's a great way to
track your progress the best place to
listen to podcast in the Ascension app
there are special features built just
for this podcast and also recordings of
the full Rosary with myself and other
Friars today and tomorrow we're going to
look at what it means to pray in
relationship to Mary as we use the
Litany of the Sacred Heart to Aid our
encounter with Jesus and our
contemplation of his face we're going to
turn to the Litany of Loretto as a
source of inspiration for our prayer
with Mary for those of you who aren't
familiar with it the Litany of Loretto
is a litany dedicated to the Blessed
Mother with a list of prayers invoking a
wide range of Mary entitles today we're
going to pray with Mary as the mirror of
Justice the prophet Malachi in chap 4:2
he writes this but for you who fear my
name the son of righteousness shall rise
with healing in its wings Sun here for
clarification is spelled suu n the son
of righteousness or the son of Justice
same word just different translation
it's a title for God most specifically
most accurately it is a title for Jesus
the Savior Mary the immaculate virgin is
the mirror of Justice or the mirror of
righteousness because in her Perfect
Purity she perfectly reflects the light
the truth and the love that radiates
from the son of righteousness Mary's not
the source of light but she perfectly
reflects the light and as the prophet
Malachi prophesied there will be healing
in its wings so too there is healing in
the face of Mary the all beautiful
one now that we've laid a bit of the
ground work and introduced the title
let's just pivot for a quick moment here
I Want You The Listener to know that I
am keenly aware that Jesus suffered a
great deal in his Earthly life most
specifically in his public
Ministry yes Jesus faced the harsh
elements of the desert where he
experienced cold and hunger he was
misunderstood slandered and betrayed he
experienced abandonment most
specifically during his Agony In The
Garden of Gethsemane while Peter James
and John were fast asleep while he was
undergoing his
Agony and of course Jesus suffered the
most terrible of sufferings during his
passion in total this is all 100% true
and it's also 100% true that Jesus tells
us that we his disciples need to pick up
our cross daily and follow him like
wherever the father's will leads like
this is all 100% true this is all fact
what's also fact and is often overlooked
or at least not
emphasized however is that Jesus also
had approximately 30 years living in
Nazareth with the most intimate and
privileged relationship with Mary his
mother for three decades he lived in the
most beautiful relationship with his
most beautiful and loving mother it was
in Nazareth that in a particular way
Mary
mirrored to
Jesus the love that God the father had
of him right long before the baptism of
Jesus where the heavens were rented and
at the banks of the Jordan the father's
voice proclaimed publicly this is my
beloved
Son Mary's
words her
countenance her motherly Embrace they
never ceased speaking this truth
reflecting this light in the privacy of
their home in Nazareth for 30 years like
whatever Jesus was doing what was
mirrored back to him is you are
beloved and yes this was true of Mary's
love of him but Mary was also an icon a
mirror communicating to Jesus The
Father's Love of him and this love would
follow him then as he would eventually
enter into the dangers of his public
Ministry
and as we know this love would follow
him even to the Cross where Mary stood
At His Feet never ceasing to mirror to
Jesus you are my beloved
Son a couple of years ago a friend of
mine she received a letter from her
14-year-old son on Mother's
Day and in the note it said your voice
sounds like home I love everything about
this I love the 14-year-old boy writing
this to his mom like your voice sounds
like home I think it's just so moving
and it's an incredible description of of
a mother's voice and a mother's love my
friends this is true of Jesus and Mary
to Jesus Mary's
voice sounds like home and so no matter
where his travels would take him if Mary
was there and he heard her voice you
could say he was taken back
home from the
cross Jesus looked at Mary and said
mother behold your
son and he looked at St John and said
behold your mother and the Gospel of
John says and from that
hour the disciple took her to his own
home and my friends this is the specific
invitation today and I propose the most
perfect way for us to understand
authentic and healthy and like vibrant
marrying
devotion it's simply to take Mary into
your home
his John and Mary shared life together
after Jesus resurrection his Ascension
like Mary wasn't just like a statue
right she wasn't just a Wallflower she
wasn't just a quiet passive presence in
the home of John she's a living
breathing loving mother they talked they
shared their
lives John did nice things to honor
her Mary was active in his life she
comforted him gave him counsel taught
him to pray encouraged him when life was
difficult in all of this as Mary looked
upon
John as when she looked Upon
Jesus she mirrored The Father's Love You
are my beloved Son you John you are
beloved Son and Mary according to God's
plan like I think so beautiful like she
doesn't just mirror this light like she
mothers it so there's this particular
tenderness of God for us that we exper
erience through her like it's mirrored
through her but it's also mothered as it
comes to us from him but through
her and as Mary and John would share
their lives together like eventually for
John as well Mary's voice began to
sound like
home this is the relationship with Mary
the mirror of justice that we are all
invited to if I can just put some flesh
on it by sharing a quick story a few
years ago I was in the South Bronx at
the post office and I was Wai in line I
had to mail something and in front of me
was a a teeny tiny Guatemalan mother
with her probably like 15 16year old son
he was just this little guy poor guy man
he was in the height of teenage angst
and he had it like a hat on pulled real
low and his hair was really kind of
disheveled and his his clothing was all
ragged and he had his headphones in and
he was you could just tell man this guy
poor guy for him life was difficult and
the mother was a Catholic and she was
just a really beautiful light soul and
we struck up a a great conversation what
they were doing is they were they were
getting ready they were going to go
travel back to Guatemala so the son
needed to take some passport photos and
as he's standing with a you know in
front of the backdrop with the cameras
in front of him he takes off his
hat and he's just like he's just kind of
a mess his hair is all over the place no
smile nothing he's just struggling
what was so striking is that in front of
all of us his mom just began to like
rejoice in him oh isn't he so handsome
my beautiful boy and all of us at first
were like I don't know if we're looking
at the same young man my friend but
right that the thing was this like this
mother she wasn't blind to she wasn't
ignorant to his hair being disheveled or
his clothes being out of place and his
kind of angsty face but this mother she
she saw her son at like a deeper level
she saw more than we saw even in the
midst of his struggle
here he was beloved Son and I think what
stands out to me as well is that I think
for all of us in that room in that post
office somehow her rejoicing in him made
us see his belovedness as well this is
the power of a mother's love
and I would dare say like through this
mother this guadal and mother at the
post office something of what Mary can
do for us like it happened like she was
mirroring as well she was mothering as
well like something of the deepest truth
that he is beloved to God the father as
well okay friends so as we come in for a
close like and particularly with prayer
today like the invitation is to
ask for the grace to experience the
loving face of
Mary and this can certainly be aided
through the use your own favorite like
Maring image or an icon or just in your
imagination like if you can like in your
imagination in prayer like ask for the
grace of the Holy Spirit go to your room
your apartment your
home and now picture Mary
there notice how she looks at you
notice how she Delights in you notice
how she's excited to be with you how
she's proud of
you and if you can now find this place
of prayer and and remain
here and if you can now like find this
place of prayer this relationship with
Mary remain here rest here
a last little note um the catechism says
that yes we're called to pray at all
times we're not going to pray at all
times if we don't pray at specific times
they kind of use this logic like
similarly like Jesus and
John were invited to do all things in
relationship with Mary under her loving
gaze and I think we can really get there
I think we can really get there but
we're not going to experience this like
again her loving gaze her mirroring to
us the deepest truth of who we are as
beloved we're not going to experience
this like at work or at school or at the
post
office if we don't first learn to
experience this in our
prayer and a primary goal primary prayer
for you and for me during this rosary
and a year Journey pilgrimage is for us
to learn to experience this in prayer
particularly our praying with the Rosary
so that we can also experience this as
we go about our daily
lives that we can like John and Jesus
have Mary in our
homes and have her as our most faithful
companion on all of our
Journeys all right my friends let us
pray in the name of the father and of
the son and of the holy spirit
amen Our Father who art in heaven
Hallowed be thy name name thy kingdom
come thy will be done on Earth as it is
in heaven give us this day our daily
bread and forgive us our trespasses as
we forgive those who trespass against us
and lead us not into temptation but
Deliver Us from Evil
amen Hail Mary full of grace the Lord is
with thee blessed art thou among women
and blessed is the fruit of thy womb
Jesus holy Mary Mother of God pray for
us sinners
now and at the hour of our death
amen Hail Mary full of grace the Lord is
with thee blessed art thou among women
and blessed is the fruit of thy womb
Jesus holy Mary Mother of God pray for
us sinners now and at the hour of our
death
amen Hail Mary full of grace the Lord is
with thee blessed art thou among women
and blessed is the fruit of thy womb
Jesus holy Mary Mother of God God pray
for us sinners now and at the hour of
our death amen glory be to the father
and to the son and to the Holy Spirit as
it was in the beginning is now and ever
shall be World Without End Amen in the
name of the father and of the son and of
the holy
spirit amen all right thank you so much
for joining me and praying with me today
I look forward to continuing this
journey with you again tomorrow all
right poco poco friends God bless youall